Update tplink docs for auth and tapo (#30966)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/tplink.markdown

ha_integration_type: integration
---

The `tplink` integration allows you to control your [TP-Link Kasa Smart Home Devices](https://www.tp-link.com/kasa-smart/) and [TP-Link Tapo Devices](https://www.tapo.com/) such as plugs, power strips, wall switches and bulbs.

You need to provision your newly purchased device to connect to your network before it can be added via the integration. This can be done either by using [kasa command-line tool](https://python-kasa.readthedocs.io/en/latest/cli.html#provisioning) or by adding it to the official Kasa or Tapo app before trying to add them to Home Assistant.

If your device is a newer Kasa or Tapo device it will require your TP-Link cloud username and password to authenticate for local access.

> If you have an older device that does not currently require authentication and you want it to stay that way, then you should disable automatic firmware updates, otherwise it may upgrade to firmware that requires it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have an older device that does not currently require authentication, you may consider disabling automatic firmware updates to keep it that way.
```
Just a suggestion to make it simpler.

Author: Done

> There is currently support for the following device types within Home Assistant:

Reviewer: I'm not sure if listing the supported platforms (just below this sentence) is anymore relevant, so it should be removed altogether to clean it up?

Author: Done

See [Supported Devices in python-kasa](https://github.com/python-kasa/python-kasa#supported-devices) for an up to date list.

> 

Reviewer: Move the note about unsupported versions here.

Author: Done

> ## Supported devices not requiring authentication

Reviewer: Maybe we should indent these to become below the "supported devices" section above? This way we could simplify these to become "No authentication required" and "Requires authentication" or something similar.

Author: Done

- KP125
- KP401
- EP10

> - EP25 (hw_version < 2.6)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- EP25 (Hardware version < 2.6)
```

Author: Done

- KL130
- KL135

#### Light strips

- KL400
- KL420
- KL430

### Requiring authentication

#### Plugs

- EP25 (Hardware version >= 2.6)
- KP125M
- P110
- HS100 (UK Hardware version 4.1 with firmware 1.1.0)

#### Wall switches

- KS205
- KS225

#### Bulbs

- L510B
- L530E

#### Light strips

- L900-5

> - L900-10

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- L900-10
- L920
```

<img width="644" alt="Screenshot 2024-01-22 at 11 34 55 AM" src="https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/assets/663432/4c1cffec-63ac-4e63-a1fd-a1063b37fab3">

confirmed working..  I think I added a fixture for this one as well already

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/python-kasa/python-kasa/blob/master/kasa/tests/fixtures/smart/L920-5(US)_1.0_1.1.0.json

- KL420
- KL430

## Supported devices requiring authentication

### Plugs

> - EP25 (hw_version >= 2.6)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- EP25 (Hardware version >= 2.6)
```

Author: Done

- KP125M
- P110

> - HS100 (UK hw_version = 4.1 fw_version = 1.1.0)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- HS100 (UK, hardware version 4.1 with firmware 1.1.0)
```

Author: Done

### Wall switches

- KS205
- KS225

### Bulbs

- L510B
- L530E

### Light strips

- L900-5
- L900-10

## Unsupported devices

> Other devices may work but if you encuonter issues submit a bug report to [python-kasa](https://github.com/python-kasa/python-kasa).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other devices may work but if you encounter issues submit a bug report to [python-kasa](https://github.com/python-kasa/python-kasa).
```

I'd also move this on top of the listings and reword it accordingly. Then we can remove the whole "unsupported devices" subsection altogether.

Author: Done

Other bulbs may also work, but with limited color temperature range (2700-5000).

> If you find a bulb isn't reaching the full-color temperature boundaries, submit a bug report to [python-kasa](https://github.com/python-kasa/python-kasa).

Reviewer: I think we could also remove this, as I think the coverage is pretty good, the tapo bulbs deliver this information via the API, and we still log a warning on unknown models.

Author: Done

> ## Light strip effects

Reviewer: Maybe we should pre-emptively document that these are only supported on non-authenticated devices for the time being?

Author: Done
